[MUSIC PLAYING]
Hey there, Polycasters.
Rob here.
Welcome back to the show.
So today on
Polycast, we're going
to looking at the Polymer
App Tool Box and the recently
released Polymer CLI.
To get started,
over in my terminal,
I'm going to run npm install
dash g polymer dash cli.
I've already gotten
this installed,
so I'm just going to go ahead
and keep churning along.
The next thing
I'm going to do is
I'm going to do a
make dir my dash app.
So create a new directory
to hold my application.
CD into that new directory.
And then I can run
the Polymer init.
And it's going to ask
me, what kind of thing
do I want to init, because
it can scaffold out
all sorts of interesting
things for me.
So it could scaffold
out an element.
It could scaffold
out a blank project.
It could scaffold out
a demo app, like shop.
In this case, what
I'm going to be doing
is using this app
drawer template.
So this very last option here.
I'll go ahead and select that.
And that's going to go and
stamp out a few files for me.
And it's also going to run
bower and go out and install
a bunch of components to
use in my application.
So under the hood,
this is installing
app route and app location.
It's installing
app layout elements
and a bunch of other
goodies that we
can use to make sure we have
a really nice performing app.
So that's done.
The next thing that
I can do with the CLI
is I can actually use
its built-in server
to preview the app.
So I'll run polymer
serve dash dash open.
And this is going to
actually boot up my browser.
You can see, here's that
app template running inside
of Chrome.
I'll zoom in a little bit
so it's a bit easier to see.
And you can see
that as I'm clicking
on these different items
over in the sidebar,
if you check our
URL here, you can
see that that is updating
as well as we go from View
One, View Two, to View Three.
So we know that app
route is working.
And we've basically
got a single page web
app that's just ready for us
to start adding content to.
So the next thing I want to do
is just create my own element.
Over in my
application, I'm going
to boot up my text editor.
And in my source directory,
this is where all of my elements
live.
So you can see I've got
one here called my app,
and then a few others
called like my view 123,
things like that.
So I'm just going to go ahead
and create a new file called
my dash new view dot html.
And I've already gone ahead
and copied a little markup
that I can just chuck in there.
So I'm going to-- from my
Bower components directory,
I'm going to import Polymer.
I'm going to use the DOM module
element to create a new element
called my-new-view.
Its template is very simple.
We've just got a single
style inside of here
to make sure that it lays
out in a block fashion.
And then I've also
got an H1 in there
so I can verify that
some text is working,
got something rendering
on the screen.
Lastly, I've got this
little block down here
at the bottom,
which is just going
to register my
element name and say
that it's called my-new-view.
OK.
Good to go.
Now, I'm going to switch
over to my index file
and make sure that I
can add my-new-view
to my list of different pages
that we can switch between.
So I'm going to
scroll down here,
and you'll notice that there's a
whole bunch of stuff kind of up
in the head of the document.
There's a bunch of script
tags inside of here.
And you might be
wondering like, what
is all of that JavaScript doing?
So let me walk through
that really quickly.
To start off with,
we've got this bit here
that says window.Polymer.
So these are settings, kind
of like global settings,
that we're setting for Polymer
so that when the app boots up,
it knows how it should behave.
This first one,
lazyRegister, what that does
is that tells Polymer
if there's a tag
and you've already got like
an attribute or something
to find on it, but
you have not loaded
the definition for
that element yet,
when that definition
does load, it
should look to see what those
values are on those attributes
and then serialize
them to the properties
inside of the element.
The other setting here is called
dom, which is set to shadow.
And what that means is if
we're on a browser that
supports native Shadow DOM,
lets go ahead and just use
native Shadow DOM.
If we're on a browser which
does not support Shadow DOM,
we're going to use the Shady DOM
shim that comes with Polymer.
Below that, we're actually going
to do a little feature detect.
So we're going to see
if the browser supports
what components.
If it does not, this
line right down here
is going to lazy load
in the web components
polyfills in the form of
web components lite js.
And then lastly, we've
got this little chunk
which is going to check to see
if service worker is supported.
And if it is, it's going to
go ahead and try and register
a service worker for us.
And you look over
here in our files,
you'll see that there's a
serviceworker.js which was
stamped out by the Polymer CLI.
So this is kind of cool
because our template
is going to go ahead
and try and make sure
that it can work offline.
And in fact, when we run
Polymer CLI's build step,
it will generate all the code
that we need for our service
worker to actually start caching
all of our different views,
which is pretty great.
Now, further down here, we're
going to import my-app element.
There's some basic
critical styles right here.
And then we've just
got the my-app tag
right there which is kicking
off the rest of our app.
Inside of my-app,
this is where I'm
going to actually put that
new view that I've created.
And this is kind of
a typical layout,
kind of like an app
shell, if you will.
We can see that we've got
our app-route inside of here.
And if you watched the
previous two episodes,
you're familiar
with using app route
to do routing in your app.
And further down, we've
got a little iron-selector.
This is where our
sidebar menu is created.
And then a little further below
that, we've got iron-pages.
This is the element
that's handling
swapping all of
our different views
when either the URL
changes or someone clicks
on an item in our sidebar.
So this is where I'm going to
add that my-new-view that I've
created, right
here in iron-pages.
So I'm just going to go
duplicate this View Three.
And I'll update some of the
parts here to say my-new-view.
I'm going to go up to the
menu here, duplicate this.
Right where it says View Three,
I'm going to say my-new-view.
So we'll save both of
these, our new view.
And we'll call this New View.
And now you might be wondering,
I didn't import my-new-view,
so how is this application
going to actually get
the definition in
there to render
that element for the user?
And this is where we've got
a pretty cool feature that's
built into this template.
And it's part of Polymers
new purple pattern, which
we talked about a
little bit at I/O.
And we'll link to that talk
at the end of this video.
And basically, the
whole idea around purple
is whenever possible,
you want to lazy load
your element definitions.
So that way you're only
registering stuff the moment
that the user would be
viewing it on screen.
You're not sort of needlessly
eating up bandwidth
or consuming CPU cycles
registering elements that maybe
the user is not looking at yet.
So if we scroll down to the
bottom of this element's
definition, you'll
see that there's
this pageChanged
function right here.
And this is linked
up to our app router.
And what happens is every
time the route updates,
it checks to see what
the page value is.
And then it's going
to call importHref,
and it's going to
say, all right.
Well, let's just
pull in anything--
based on the page
value, let's pull
in any element that matches that
page name with a prefix of my.
So we've got in my
view one, my view two.
And because I just created a
new one called my-new-view,
when someone goes to a
page called slash new view,
this is going to run.
It's going to fetch
that definition.
That element's going
to upgrade it in place.
And only then will we
swap over to the new view.
So I think we're actually
ready to see this in action.
And we can go back
to our terminal,
verify that our server
is still running.
So far so good.
Now, let's go back to
Chrome, refresh the page,
and we see that we've
now got this new menu
item for New view.
And clicking on that, I
can see that H1 showing up.
So I know that my
content is working.
My element was lazy loaded
and stamped out to the page.
Now, the last thing I want to
do is take this application
and actually deploy it to
a service like Firebase
so I can share it
with the world.
Now, Firebase is a really,
really amazing service
which does real time
database syncing, as well
as static hosting, and a bunch
of other really cool features.
For our use cases,
we're going to use
the basic static hosting.
So I've actually gone ahead,
gone to the Firebase console,
and created this brand new
project called PolyApp.
If you are new to
Firebase, you'll
need to go to their
website and create
an account at Firebase.com.
And then click on the
little console button.
And that way you can start
adding new applications.
So I've got this little
app called PolyApp.
And in my terminal, I can use
Firebase's command line tools
to actually deploy
my application.
So I'm going to
run Firebase login
if I have not logged in yet.
Because I have already
gone ahead and logged in,
I can just run Firebase init.
I should point out, actually,
if you haven't installed
these tools yet, you can do
so within npm install dash g
firebase tools.
So that'll actually give you
access to their command line.
I'm going to run Firebase init.
And it's going to ask me some
questions about my project.
It'll ask me, do we want
to use the database,
or do we want to
use static hosting?
I'm going to hit spacebar to
say, I don't need the database,
I just need static hosting.
It's going to ask me which
directory I want to deploy.
And though we haven't
built our project yet,
I actually am just
going to go ahead
and say that I want to deploy a
directory called build/bundled.
And we'll come back
to that in just a sec.
It's going to ask, do we want
to rewrite all of our URLs
to always serve
index.html, which we do,
because we're building
a single page web app.
So we'll say, yep.
And then it's going to
ask us, which project do
we want to associate this with?
And we're going to associate
it with that PolyApp project
that I created.
This is going to create two
files for our application--
Firebase dot json and dot
Firebase rc, both of which
have some configuration
data for our app.
The last thing we need
to do is we actually
need to build our
application for production.
And before I do that,
I'm going to switch back
to my text editor and find this
file here called Polymer.json.
Now, the way that
this is going to work
is the Polymer build tool
is going to try and separate
our app into the shell and then
all of the different fragments.
Anything that is lazy loaded.
So all those views that I
mentioned before-- my view
one, my view two, those are
all lazy loaded at runtime,
as is the new view
that I created.
And so what I want to do
here is where it says shell,
leave it set to my app.html.
And where it says
fragments, I'm going
to add a new fragment for
that new page that I created.
So I'll say source
slash my-new-view.html.
And save that.
And what happens here is when
we run the Polymer build step,
Vulcanize is going
to go and it's
going to try and
create little bundles
for each one of these
pages, making sure
that it's not loading duplicate
elements, which is really nice.
It's going to cut down
on our bandwidth usage
and prevent possible weird
errors when we try and like
double register elements
or stuff like that.
So it's going to go ahead
and solve that for us, which
is pretty cool.
So with our fragments in place,
we can now go to our terminal
and run Polymer build.
And this is going to generate
two versions of our project--
an unbundled version which
does not use Vulcanize
or anything like that.
That is for servers that
support HTTP2 server push
and can actually just stream
down the individual element
definitions.
For servers which don't
support HTTP2 server push,
we can have a bundled version.
And that's going to use
Vulcanize to actually look
at all of our
different fragments
and turn those into
little vulcanized bundles
of concatenated elements.
And that's actually the one
that we're going to deploy.
So we already went
ahead and we told
Firebase to deploy the
build/bundle directory, which
means the last thing I need to
do is just run firebase deploy.
Now that those directories
have been generated,
it's going to go ahead and
push all that content up
to Firebase.
So we're going to wait for the
Firebase indicator to finish.
And lastly, we can
run firebase open.
And it's going to ask
what we want to open.
And we'll go down to where it
says hosting deployed site.
And there we go.
We've got our application
running on Firebase.
We can click on my-new-view
and verify that everything
looks as expected.
And really, in just
a few short minutes,
we've gone from having no
app whatsoever to scaffolding
something out using the CLI
to setting it up on Firebase
and deploying it to the world.
Now, there's a lot
more that I want
to cover around App
Tool Box and CLI,
so we're just getting started.
If you have questions, though,
please leave them for me
down in the comments
or you can ping me
on a social network of your
choosing at #AskPolymer.
As always, thank you
so much for watching,
and I'll see you next time.
[MUSIC PLAYING]